                                          MORDERN HTML ASSIGNMENT 

  TASK 1 : List out the feautres of HTML 5 .
  SOLUTION : Features of HTML 5
   1. Improved Multimedia support -
    HTML5 allows for integrating multimedia elements such as <audio> and <video> directly into web pages without
     the need for plugins like Flash .
   2. Canvas element -
    HTML5 introduced the <canvas> element, allowing dynamic, interactive graphics to be
     created and manipulated within a web page .
  3.Geolocation API -
   It is an API for obtaining the user's location, enabling web applications to offer location-based
     services.                                        
  4. Local Storage -
   HTML5 introduced the local Storage API, which allows for the storage of data on the user's
device, improving performance and reducing the need for round-trips to the server .
  5. New Structural Elements -
 HTML5 introduced new semantic elements such as <header>, <footer>, <nav>,
and <article>, etc. that make it easier to structure and organize content on a web page .
  6. Form Improvements - 
HTML5 introduced several improvements to forms, including new input types like
date, time, and color, as well as new attributes such as required and autofocus . 
  7.Accessibility improvements -
 HTML5 provides better support for accessibility, including the ability to provide
alternative text for images and improved support for screen readers.


TASK 2 : What are HTML Entities? List out 5 commonly used HTML entities.
SOLUTION : The reserved character used in HTML document are called HTML ENTITIES .
They provide wide range of character, allowing you to add icon , shape and mathematical operators.

COMMONLY USED HTML 5 ENTITES 
 1.  &reg;     (&#174;)
 used to represent registered trademark symbol Ⓡ .

 2.  &copy;    (&#169;)
 used to represent copyright symbol  © .

 3.  &amp;     (&#38;)
 used to represent ampersand symbol & .

 4. &quot;     (&#34;)
 used to represent double quotation mark " .

 5.  &apos;     (&#39;)
 used to represent single quotation mark or apostrophe  '  .



 TASK 3 :  Define accessibility in the context of web development? Discuss why it's essential to create accessible
websites and how it benefits different user groups .
SOLUTION :  Accessibility IN THE CONTEXT OF WEB DEVELOPMENT    -   
 The Web should be designed to work for all people, whatever their hardware, software, language, location, 
 or ability. When the Web meets this requirement . 
It is accessible to people with a diverse range of abilities like hearing, movement, sight, and cognitive abilities.

      IMPORTANCE OF ACCESSIBLE WEBSITE 
     1. Expand your audience .
     2.  Provide a better experience for all users .
     3.  Cost less to maintain .
     4.  Ensure that people with disabilities can participate fully in society .
     5. Improve the usability of the site for all users .
     6. Impact a company's reputation and brand image .
     7. Potentially improve your SEO ranking  .
     8. Ensure access for individuals with diverse abilities, learning styles, and devices .

       BENEFITS FOR USER GROUP 
    1. Accessibility provides screen reader support and text alternatives, aiding blind and visually impaired users.
    2.  Captions and transcripts benefit those with hearing impairments by making audio content understandable.
    3.  Keyboard navigation and easy-to-click elements assist users with motor limitations.
    4. Accessible design simplifies content and layout, aiding individuals with cognitive challenges.
    5. Accessible websites accommodate age-related limitations, ensuring usability for elderly users.
    6. Accessible design improves mobile experiences through simplified and responsive layouts .


    TASK 4 : List any 3 ways which help us in improving the accessibility of HTML .
    SOLUTION : Ways to improve accessibility of HTML 
    1. USE OF SEMANTIC HTML 
    using correct HTML elements for their correct purpose as much as possible.
     Semantic elements are elements with a meaning; if you need a button, use the <button> element .
    2.  USE OF HEADING
    Search engines use the headings to index the structure and content of your web pages.
     Users skim your pages by its headings.
     It is important to use headings to show the document structure and the relationships between different sections.
     Screen readers also use headings as a navigational tool. 
     3. ALTERNATIVE TEXT   - alt
      attribute provides an alternate text for an image, if the user for some reason cannot view it
       (because of slow connection, an error in the src attribute, or if the user uses a screen reader).
       

